# 安全概述

物联网（IoT）为全球业务提供广泛的联系，帮助传统企业进行数字化转型，在降低运营成本的同时创造价值，提高生产效率，增加企业收入。

然而，另一方面，物联网的安全性、隐私、道德、和守法对世界各地的企业来说是一个前所未有的巨大挑战。物联网解决方案融合了物理世界和数字世界，这也意味着潜在的攻击和风险可能同时发生。物联网也带来了更多关于隐私和道德的关注。企业必须关注数据的安全性，考虑谁有权访问何种资源，谁有权管理访问控制策略等等。

因此，与传统软件开发和实施的网络安全需求相比，安全的IoT解决方案需要对整个数据旅程的保护、防御、和治理，包括设备的安全接入、设备和云端之间的安全通信、云端的安全数据处理和存储、安全的应用程序开发等。

本文详细介绍EnOS提供的安全和私有化的物联网解决方案。EnOS是一个综合性的物联网操作系统，对每个环节都采用了内置的安全防护技术。

## EnOS安全防护一览

EnOS管理超过100兆瓦的客户能源资产，其中的大部分是全球大型能源企业。可靠的安全实施和原则是EnOS设计的核心，以确保客户的系统和数据的安全、隐私、合规始终得到维护。

EnOS利用全球领先的云服务供应商的安全基础设施的优势来维护云端安全和数据隐私，例如客户操作系统补丁维护、防火墙配置、灾备等。EnOS的网络安全也由全球领先的供应商提供的网络基础设施保护，包括虚拟私有云（VPC），限制接入点、基于规则的网络流量、IPsec VPN等。为保护数据的安全传输，应用程序必须通过HTTPS或TLS调用EnOS REST API接口，设备和EnOS Edge可以通过TLS保护的数据通道连接到EnOS云端。

EnOS提供安全的边缘设备、安全的设备连接、安全的数据存储等服务。下文详细介绍EnOS在4个领域的安全保护措施。

## Secure Edge

Each EnOS edge has a unique indentity key which can be used by the IoT Hub to communicate with the edge while it is in operation.The key with a user-defined edge ID forms the basis of a token and a signature used in communication between the edge and the IoT Hub. These edge IDs can use an existing fixed identity such as serial number, network MAC address which is not simple to be changed. The edge IDs are managed by _edge device provisioner_ in the IoT Hub via EnOS console or APIs. The IoT Hub provides secure storage of edge identities and secret keys.

EnOS edge has built-in firmware/software upgrade feature to ensure that critical patches against security vulnerabilities can be applied manually or automatically. Any changes or firmware/software upgrades applied to edges will be logged at the cloud side for auditing.

Unused USB ports are disabled by default to prevent malicious access. Only network ports used by necessary applications and services are enabled by network policies explicitly.

Some type of EnOS edges are manufactured with TPM chips. EnOS may utilize this hardware feature to store the client certificate securely.

## Secure Connectivity

EnOS edge and other compatible edge devices communicate with EnOS cloud via TLS protected data tunnel. X.509 certificate based bi-directional authentication is enforced for each session. To ensure that each edge has its exclusive client certificate, the certificate request exchange is performed by edge during its first power-on procedure. Edge device generates public certificate request containing unique device identifier (e.g., serial number, network MAC address) and corresponding private key according to PKI standard. Certificate request will be forwarded to EnOS certification service or public-trusted CA for sign. Later, issued public certificate will be sent back to edge device, to be stored together with private key locally.

To ensure secure connections from the devices and end users to the EnOS portal, HTTP over TLS is applied for data transmissions, which uses public-key cryptography to prevent eavesdropping, tampering, and forgery.

Devices and end users can establish secure communication sessions to API endpoints that EnOS services provide. HTTPS is used for accessing the REST APIs.For the TLS protected data channel between the devices and EnOS cloud, X.509 certification based bidirectional authentication is adopted, all data is encrypted during transmission.


## Secure Cloud and Data
EnOS takes famous IaaS verdors as its cloud infrastructure providers. The IaaS vendor is responsible for protecting the global infrastructure that hosts all services provisioned in the cloud. The infrastructure is comprised of the hardware, software, networking, and facilities that run the cloud services. For these managed cloud services, the IaaS vendor manages basic security operations such as guest operating system patching, firewall configuration, and disaster recovery.

From the security perspective, adopting an IaaS vendor brings the following benefits:
- Industry-standard security compliance.
- State-of-the-art physical and environmental security solutions.
- High availability, which promotes business continuity.
- World-class secure network infrastructure with focus on manageability and monitoring.
- Mature change management process.

The data centers where EnOS is hosted are state of the art, secured by innovative architectural and engineering approaches:  
- The data centers are housed in nondescript facilities.
- Physical access is strictly controlled at both the perimeter and the building ingress points by professional security staff who utilizes video surveillance, intrusion detection systems, and other electronic means to enforce security.
- An authorized staff must pass two-factor authentication for a minimum of two times to access the data center.

EnOS adopts a very strict mechanism for protecting data at rest. Sensitive data, defined by built-in and custom rules, is encrypted before putting into files or databases. Data is encrypted with keys exclusive to the customers that are generated by EnOS or provided by clients. Decryption happens automatically when data is retrieved through the EnOS API. Therefore, no intruders or platform operators will have access to the data even when they have access to the underlying file system or database systems.

Within EnOS, data (such as files, database) belonging to different clients (a.k.a. “OU”) are stored separately or segmentally. Logical data segmentation is established in all underlying components of EnOS. In the EnOS big data storage system, all files, tables, and other types of data are secured by access control, although data from different clients are stored physically in a single cluster. Only authorized user may access data with audit-enabled API calls or command tools. This mechanism not only promotes the security of data, but also makes it possible to share data among different clients without extra storage cost.

In addition, EnOS also has capability of providing dedicated storage for those clients with highly sensitive data, to meet the requirement of some special scenarios.

## Secure Application

While the underlying IaaS secures the physical venues, network, operating systems, and managed services. EnOS secures the applications that are hosted on the platform, including applications that manage massive IoT assets .

EnOS secures applications through the following means:
- Identity and Access Management
- Network protection
- Data encryption
- Logging and Monitoring
- Security Auditing

#### Identity and Access Management
Identity and Access Management (IAM) enables you to create and manage permissions for EnOS resources. IAM unifies access control for Cloud Platform services into a single system and presents a consistent set of operations. EnOS applies the IAM scheme to support multi-tenancy, where each tenant in EnOS is managed as an organizational unit. Data that belongs to different organizations are securely segregated and can only be accessed by users that are registered to the organization.

EnOS’ built-in IAM schemes provide capabilities of identity management, authentication, authorization, and auditing.

#### Network Protection
EnOS hosts several automated monitoring tools to detect abnormal and unauthorized activities and situations at ingress and egress points. These tools monitor the server and network usage, port scanning activities, application usage, and unauthorized intrusion attempts. The tools allow custom performance metric thresholds to be set for abnormal activities.

#### Data Encryption
Sensitive data, defined by built-in and custom rules, is encrypted before being put into files or databases. Decryption happens automatically when data is retrieved through the EnOS API.

#### Logging and Monitoring
Centralized logging service in EnOS is configured to aggregate activity logs and show security related metrics at the real-time.

EnOS logs all user activities to the portal and API invocations.The activity log contains details about each access request including the request type, requested resource, requestor’s IP, and the date and time of the request. Alerts are triggered when defined thresholds are exceeded.

#### Security Auditing
Accounts with proper privileges may access authorized resources via EnOS service APIs and portal. Access validation is performed for each access attempt. Success or failure attempts are recorded in IAM logs for auditing and abnormality detection purposes.

## Conclusion
Security is integrated into every aspect of EnOS. EnOS offers you unique security advantages derived from protect, governance and defense for the IoT Security, privacy and ethics, and compliance.

Modern applications are continuously moving to the cloud because the cloud not only provides scalability, high performance and reliability, but also provides very high security standard.

Compared to the traditional application hosted in the clients’ own data center, whose security completely relies on the clients, the security responsibilities of the cloud applications are shared across the cloud infrastructure provider, the cloud application platform and the clients.

The IaaS vendor is responsible for the industrial compliance, the physical and environmental security, the network security, the operating system security and the storage security. EnOS, as the IoT PaaS, is responsible for adopting the best security practices for authentication, access control, network protection, data encrypting, activity logging and auditing to secure clients’ data and applications.

EnOS has taken security seriously and carefully considers all security aspects with substantial web application security experience. EnOS will continue to help our clients make a sound decision on the IoT platform to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of their devices and data.
